
LOR Example By Mohammad A. Halim

Dear Madam and Sir;

I am writing on behalf of Mr. X in support of his application for EM3E-4SW International Master Program. I have known Mr. X for well over three year as research supervisor at The Red-Green Research Centre (RGRC).
Mr. X possesses a very strong work ethic which is coupled to an intense curiosity in chemistry. He is perhaps the most humble man I have ever encountered. Mr. X is highly intelligent and very insightful and when he articulates his thoughts it clearly evident that he has analyzed a problem from many different perspectives.
In mid-2015, 
Mr. X successfully completed his training as “undergrad intern” at RGRC.  When he started his research project he did not have any prior knowledge in computational chemistry. Within short time, he was able to learn and perform simulation with Gaussian and related computational chemistry software. He is exceptionally hard working students and always finished his assigned task before the deadline and wait for my next instructions. He completed his first project on ‘Vibrational Circular Dichroism of Chiral Amino Acids’ employing quantum and molecular mechanics theories. He is now writing his draft manuscript to be submitted to a peer-reviewed journal as a full article. His work has been awarded as one of the best undergrad speaker prize in ‘speak up your research’ program at Dhaka, Bangladesh. His research also received the best poster presenter awards at Bangladesh Chemical Society and IEEE student Conferences.  X is one of the best multitask researchers in my lab as he also worked for a collaborative project with Ibn Tofail University, Morocco on inhibition efficiency of some essential oils from olive and traditional plants. For his 4th year research project, he combines molecular dynamics simulation to assess the impact of osmolytes on protein structure with his experimental work under the supervision of Prof. S at Dhaka University. 
Recently, X has been appointed as research assistant and manager at RGRC based on his outstanding performance. As a research assistant, he supervises second and third year undergrad students and trains them on computational software/research. Undergrad students informed me that X is a very good teacher and explains things in details when they ask for his help. As a lab manager, he maintains an office hour and performs various tasks including organizing meeting, seminars and training, purchasing lab equipment, trouble-shooting software and hardware.
Mr. X’s writing skill is very good, based on the research article he has written on “Vibrational Circular Dichroism of Chiral Amino Acids”. He can write a good draft manuscript which requires minor revisions. Mr. X’s oral communication skills are exceptionally good as evident from his several award receptions. He can conduct his research alone and also in a team. Mr. X  is also involved with several outreach programs to promote science education in Bangladesh. He is one the best motivated young researcher I have even seen.
In summary, Mr. X’s is as intelligent, diligent and very hard-working student who will make important contributions to any research problem he undertakes. I highly recommend him for EM3E-4SW International Master Program. If there are any questions regarding this letter, please feel free to contact me.

Mohammad A. Halim, PhD
President and CEO
The Red-Green Research Centre, Bangladesh
Email: mahalim@grc-bd.org
