
## An Example SOAP by Mohammad A. Halim 
### Assistant Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry at Kennesaw State University
### Founder and Member of Trustee Board at The Red-Green Research Centre 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I would like to obtain a PhD degree in physical/inorganic chemistry focusing on the development of photosynthetic devices for solar energy conversion. In particular, I am interested in the energy and electron transfer processes in natural photosystems and how we can design molecules by exploiting experimental and computational techniques. I think Prof. S’s lab would be a suitable place for me to acquire this expertise.
Our energy consumption heavily relies on fossil fuels. However, these fuels have been viewed as a major environmental threat because of their substantial contribution to greenhouse gases. One of the most promising sustainable sources of energy can be achieved by the photosynthetic process, where in the presence of chlorophyll and other accessory pigments, plants and some bacterias capture photons and convert water and carbon-dioxide into energy-rich organic compounds. The whole process is carried out by two photosystems in the thylakoid membrane of plants, marine algae, and bacterias. These complex photosystems are composed of Mn-cluster based redox sites for water oxidation, light harvesting antenna, reaction centre, and energy/electron transfer systems. In the 1990s, when researchers solved the crystal structures of the light harvesting antenna complex from photosynthetic bacteria and plants, the concept of artificial light harvesting opened a new window for solving our energy problems.
Despite numerous studies on this research, still our understanding of natural photosynthetic process requires more insights how the light harvesting complexes interact with each other, and how they perform a function like rectification, amplification, or feedback. The impact of the environment on the energy transfer including how the environment and electronic systems interact is not well understood. More studies are needed to unveil the interactions of chromophore and solvent medium for the photosynthetic proteins. The questions remained on the function of the protein framework on maintaining the quantum coherence/decoherence are not solved yet. In addition, studies require on how we can synthesis and design well-defined chromophores’ arrays connecting them in a rigid framework (in order to avoid the conformational changes and reduce quantum decoherence induced by environment) and optimize them as a small part of a larger light-harvesting system.
Over the course of my PhD studies, I would like to focus my research on these problems associated with the light harvesting processes by combining experimental and computational techniques. 

I have several years of research experience in physical and environmental chemistry. For my master’s thesis at Memorial, I employed both wavefunction and density functional (DFT) theories to study the deamination reactions of glutamine (Trojan horse) in the gas phase as well as in the condensed phase using PCM (polarizable continuum model) and SMD (solvent model on density) solvation models. The mechanism of this reaction provides us with a new insight into the molecular basis for the catabolic production of toxic ammonia whose excessive amount leads to hyperammonemia disease. As a part of computational course project, I also studied the effect of solvent on vibrational frequencies, IR intensities, Raman scattering activities, solvation free energies of drugs using PCM.  
During my masters, I also took photochemistry course with Prof. ZZZ and presented a well-organized review on “Towards Artificial Fuel Device: Ru-Mn Chemistry for Fuel Production” for the course. Moreover, I was a group leader in writing a well depth review on “Sigma Bond-to-Ligand Charge Transfer in Photoreactive Transition Metal complexes” for the course. My quantum background gave me wide opportunities to explore and enjoy with the true nature of photochemistry. I learnt how time-dependent perturbation theory can help us to design long lived chromophore by decreasing rate constant and equilibrium displacement with increasing the energy gap between the excited and ground state. Last summer, I also worked with Prof. ZZZ on “ground and excited properties of shape‒persistence pyrene macrocycles (a potential dye for organic solar cell due to its rigid framework between donor and acceptor)” employing experiential (Time resolved laser spectroscopy) and computational (Time-dependent DFT) techniques and presented this project on Summer Conference on Organic Chemistry at Memorial. 
My previous research in Bangladesh was in the field of experimental environmental chemistry. The goal was to develop suitable low-cost adsorbing materials such as crab shell chitosan and iron-based titanium-dioxide from beach sand and compare their performance on removing arsenic and other heavy metals from the contaminated water. I also have experience on applying analytical tools to understand the contamination level of arsenic and other trace elements in soil, water and sludge. 
I do enjoy presenting the scientific fact putting the appropriate context in relation to other important issues. I have strong motivation to present my lecture incorporating history, mythology or fiction in science. For example, my recent presentation in chemistry colloquium at Memorial on “artificial light harvesting” was highly appreciated and was awarded first prize. 
Besides research, I coordinate regular group meetings and schedule talks for Prof. X research group. I enjoy my undergraduate lab teaching at MUN as a graduate assistant and attended TOGA sessions, a teaching program where admission is limited to the best teaching assistants. I also have experiences in teaching at different institutions. In Dhaka University of Engineering & Technology, I conducted the lab classes for the engineering students and as a lecturer in Dhaka City College, I taught both theory and lab classes for general chemistry. These experiences enhanced my proficiency in maintaining a class as well as in presenting my ideas and communicating scientific principles with my students.
I believe my previous experimental background in Bangladesh, present experience in quantum, and training as a laser spectroscopist under a SWASP position at Memorial would be helpful to explore and make contributions in the field of photochemistry research at University of TTT under the supervision of SSS.


## An Example Motivation Letter by Asraful Forhad Chowdhury 
## It is highly customized for Software Engineering Related Track 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Motivation letter

My purpose in applying to the master's programme in Software, Web & Cloud at xxxx University is to become a prominent researcher in software engineering and cloud-based systems. Moreover, gain the capability of designing and implementing high-quality software systems. I am confident that the master's programme in Software, Web & Cloud will help me acquire this expertise.

I have completed my undergraduate studies in Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Chittagong (CU), Bangladesh, with a CGPA of xxxxxx. During my undergraduate studies, I have worked on large-scale time-series traffic data as a part of my undergraduate thesis. Moreover, I was the key member of the contemplative programming team representing my university in the ACM ICPC Dhaka regional contest. My undergraduate studies include a wide range of courses ( e .g.  Mathematics, Statistics, Numerical Analysis, Programming, Data Structure and Computer Algorithms, Physics, Computer Architecture & Interfacing, Microprocessor, Operating Systems, Database Systems, System Analysis & Design, Software Engineering, Automata Theory, Computer Networking, Compiler Design, Computer Graphics, Geographical Information & Systems, Artificial Intelligence & Neural Network, Computer Modeling & Simulations etc.) and software projects which give me a solid understanding for pursuing study in Software, Web & Cloud. My academic excellence demonstrated my commitment towards academia, and my competitive programming skills represent problem-solving capability. It gives me the required knowledge and confidence to pursue a Master’s degree in Software, Web and cloud at xxxx University and complete it in excellence. 

Professionally, I contributed to the research and development of the automated fingerprint identification system (AFIS). Optimized use of data structure and modified algorithms for faster performance on large-sized data was the main focus of my task. Moreover, I have contributed to large scale core banking solutions where I wrote specifications and implemented new features. Blockchain-based (IBM Hyperledger) voting solution is another project where I contributed by writing smart contracts briefly.I designed and developed an information security (Standard: ISO/IEC 27001) audit application to monitor data access across geo-locations. Performed reverse engineering for the distributed deployment of several engineering applications (e.g.Aton-PDM, Axes, CADS, Catiav6, Comos, CatiaV5-Enovia-vpm/file-based-system, EPDM, interlink, PDMS, Sovelia etc.) and produced detailed architecture documents including security enhancement suggestions.However, I am excited about my most recent project, which is an end to end machine learning platform for any size of data. In this project, I designed its event-driven architecture along with my team. Moreover, working on its implementation as a cloud-based engine for industry-grade machine learning. One of my ongoing POCs about machine learning model monitoring (e.g. model drift).

Apart from my academic life, I am actively involved with a non-profit organization named Higher Study Abroad Foundation. I work as a technical consultant for that organization. The primary goal of our organization is to serve prospective students in different ways so that they can get the proper guidance and help for their higher studies.

Moreover, I have found that the curriculum of the master's programme in Software, Web & Cloud is a 100% match with my work experience. Which includes contents involving all steps of the software development lifecycle. However, a Master's Thesis (30 ECTS) is one area that interests me most. Along with the opportunity of internship and tutoring international students. Not only that, as a masters student at xxxx University, I can take full advantage of the teaching offered by the xxx higher education community and enhance multidisciplinary scientific knowledge. Another encouraging factor is Elective studies give several options for specialization and make me highly interested in this masters programme.

I am highly motivated and driven by the power of scientific research and the well being it can bring to society. I like to unlock the opportunity of further study at the Doctoral School of xxx university. The Master's programme that I am applying for will make me eligible for that. Research opportunity explained by xxxxxx xxxx University Doctoral School, Research Director, and the experience shared by other students of xxxx University convinced me that xxx University is the right choice for me and can contribute to my career without a doubt. 

Two programs I am applying for are Software, Web & Cloud (MSc) and Web & Cloud (MSc Tech).But, I would like to prefer Software, Web & Cloud (MSc) as my first choice and Software, Web & Cloud (MSc Tech) as my second choice.In my undergraduate studies I had courses on mathematics and Physics which fulfill the requirement for my second choice.I do prefer Software, Web & Cloud (MSc) for its focus on research though it's also possible MSc Tech.

I am happy to let you know that I have visited xxx  University, City Center campus, While I was on an official visit to the client office. The facility for students and quality of education is one of the best in the world, which makes me highly interested in the opportunity offered by the master's programme in Software, Web & Cloud and acquiring industry-grade skills.

The overall goal for receiving a masters degree is to combine the theoretical aspect with the implementation approach and pursue further studies on the doctoral level. Moreover, I will use the acquired knowledge for the greater good of human life. 

Sincerely yours, 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx


